1 System Description With the need to integrate sensors into newer wireless and cloud applications, the Bluetooth-enabled, high-accuracy skin temperature measurement flex patch provides a wireless solution for receiving high accuracy skin temperature measurements on a Bluetooth-capable device, such as a smart phone or tablet. Through direct contact with the skin, the TMP117 high-accuracy, low-power, digital temperature sensor can send 16-bit digital output data through the I²C to a CC2640R2F SimpleLink™ Bluetooth low energy (BLE) wireless microcontroller (MCU). After collecting this data, the CC2640R2F can use Bluetooth protocol to transmit the data to a Bluetooth-connected device. The patch is designed to operate with a 3-V, flexible thin-film battery, requiring very low power consumption of the design components. For testing and demonstration purposes, the designer can use the large contact pads of the device to receive external power from other sources when a battery is not connected. There are two primary modes of operation for the patch: active and inactive mode. When the patch is inactive, the CC2640R2F enters a complete shutdown state and the TMP117 is powered down. This mode allows a multiple year shelf life for the patch without a significant depletion of stored energy in the battery. When the designer presses the wake-up switch, the flex patch enters active mode and the TMP117 begins reading and auto-advertising temperature data the CC2640R2F BLE device can receive. When the designer uses the software as designed, the only way to return the patch from active mode back to inactive mode is to remove and reapply the device power. In healthcare applications, reuse or extended use of monitoring patches may pose risks to patient health due to hygiene concerns. The software for this patch was created with the intent to make the design disposable so that each patch can only be used once. An alternative for temperature-monitoring systems is to use a removable covering that can be disposed of after use. This is common in designs of probe-type thermometers for oral temperature measurements. If this method is used, the system and these covers must be characterized as the final design. For probes, the designer can modify the software to move between active and inactive mode, but an MCU must be in the probe to use Bluetooth communication protocol under this modification. 1.1 Key System Specifications Table 1. Key System Specifications PARAMETER SPECIFICATIONS DETAILS Limited by CC2640R2 and Operating power supply range +1.8 VDC to +3.8 VDC TMP117 supply range Limited by operating range Operating temperature –40ºC to +85ºC of CC2640R2 Exceed requirements for Temperature accuracy ±0.1ºC (max) from +35ºC to +43ºC human body temperature measurements RF range >10 meters BLE 4.2/5 Form factor 2-layer flexible PCB 