该 TI 参考设计末尾的重要声明表述了授权使用、知识产权问题和其他重要的免责声明和信息。 1 System Description Power tools are used in various industrial and household applications such as drilling, grinding, cutting, polishing, driving fasteners, various garden applications, and so on. Power tools can be either corded or cordless (battery powered). Corded power tools use the mains power (the grid power) to power up the AC or DC motors. The cordless tools use battery power to drive DC motors. Cordless tools use brushed or brushless DC (BLDC) motors. The BLDC motors are more efficient and have less maintenance, low noise, and longer life. These tools are getting smarter with the use of wireless connectivity. The wireless connectivity option gives many smart features such as: • Tool authentication • Tool tracking • Intelligent inventory management • Immediate fault reporting from the tool • Understanding the status of the tool like the battery conditions and total operating duration This option also enables online configuration of parameters like torque limit, type of material drilling, and so on. The most common solution for wireless connectivity used in power tools, garden tools, and vacuum cleaners is Bluetooth low energy (BLE). The Bluetooth low energy option is provided as a separate module or as integrated part of the tool. This reference design uses TI’s latest chip CC2640R2F, offering Bluetooth low energy 5.0. This version comes with long range, low power consumption, best RF performance and good industrial immunity. This reference design uses the single microcontroller (MCU), CC2640R2F, to do both BLDC trapezoidal motor control and Bluetooth connectivity. This reference design uses TI’s latest smart three-phase gate driver DRV8323, which comes with advanced features like single PWM control, eliminating a lot overhead from the MCU. The design uses the CSD88584Q5DC NexFET™ power block featuring a very low R DS_ON of 0.68 mΩ in a SON5×6 SMD package. The power block with high-side and low-side FETs in a single package helps to achieve a very small form factor and better switching performance. The three-phase gate driver DRV8323 is used to drive the three-phase MOSFET bridge, which can operate from 6 V to 60 V and support a programmable gate current with a maximum setting of 2-A sink and 1-A source. The SPI provides detailed fault reporting and flexible parameter settings such as gain options for the current shunt amplifier, slew rate control of the gate drivers, and various protection features. The TPS709 LDO, featuring a low quiescent current (< 1 µA), generates the low-noise, stable, 3.3-V power supply for the MCU. The test report evaluates the RMS current capability, peak current capability and thermal performance of the board, FET switching waveforms, and overcurrent protection features such as cycle-by-cycle control and latch control of the DRV8323. The test results also shows the robust RF performance with low power consumption. A low noise coupling or interference from the motor drive side enables the designers to integrate Bluetooth low energy along with the motor control with much lower noise interference, lowering the overall cost. 1.1 Key System Specifications 表表 1. Key System Specifications PARAMETER SPECIFICATION Input voltage 18-V DC (6-V min to 21-V max), five-cell Li-Ion battery Rated output power 600 W RMS winding current 27 A Control method Sensor-based trapezoidal Inverter switching frequency 20 kHz (adjustable from 5 kHz to 100 kHz) Feedback signals DC bus voltage, Hall sensor, low-side DC bus current Cycle-by-cycle overcurrent, input undervoltage, over- Protections temperature Cooling Natural cooling only, no heat sink Operating ambient –20°C to +55°C Board specification 70 mm × 45 mm, four-layer, 1-oz copper Efficiency > 98.5% Bluetooth Bluetooth low energy 5.0 Maximum TX power 5 dBm RX sensitivity –96 dBm, 1 Mbps, BER < 0.1% 